---
title: "Use Case 00027: Using AVAnnotate as a Critical Listening Journal"
date: 2026-06-01 11:23:00 -0600
categories: [Use Case, Test]
tags: [audiovisual]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

**User Story:** As a student studying critical listening, I want to create a multimedia listening journal so that I can document my critical listening in an engaging, interactive format.

**Description:** Critical listening involves listening to and engaging with poems or other audio performances with a critical ear. This can involve asking pointed questions about the material being listened to, learning about the context of the recording, engaging with the ways in which audio alters the written word, and more. A critical listening journal is a record of this critical listening practice. AVAnnotate can be used to create an interactive, multimedia listening journal. Relevant fields include English, Literature, Social Sciences, Poetry, Writing, and Performing Arts.

**Ingredients**
- Multiple audio or audiovisual recordings of performances
- Annotations (critical listening notes for each recording)
- Tags (optional)

**Method**
1. Perform close listening of each audio or audiovisual recording(s), making note of observations and analyses with **timestamps** for all notes
  - [This lesson plan](https://jentery.github.io/SWDemo/output_documents/Critical_Listening_Journal_-_Initial_Questions.html) includes a list of questions that can be used for close listening
  - Like most journals, the listening journal should be updated and added to over time; begin with close listening of one or two recordings
2. Upload audio recording(s) to AVAnnotate and add **annotations**, following [Quick Start: How to use AVAnnotate](https://av-annotate.org/how-to-use/) guide
3. Create and add **tags** to annotations, if desired, following Quick Start guide
  - Tags can be used to see common themes across multiple recordings
4. Create a home page, if desired, to introduce your close listening journal and to discuss the common themes, ideas, etc. of your journal
5. Continue updating close listening journal with new recordings over time

**Example:** [Close Listening Journal](https://jentery.github.io/SWDemo/output_documents/Critical_Listening_Journal_-_Initial_Questions.html) by Jason Camlot (This is a lesson plan, not an AVAnnotate project, but could be used to generate an AVAnnotate project. This is part of Jentery Sayers’ SpokenWeb Pedagogy site - will seek permission to share more widely if included on a public use case website.)
